---
layout: post
title: "I see a conference and I want to paint it Purple - Purplecon 2019"
date:   2019-10-16 11:23:09 +1200
author: TheQueenIsDead
categories: conference chcon
---

# Purplecon 2019

> "No I didn't go to Purplecon, I was busy at a real conference for adults"

Last night I met a guy at a bar, we got talking about the various InfoSec conferences happening this week, and that led us to
 speaking a little about our days and respective times in Wellington. He said the above jokingly (no harm done)
 but in reality it is archetypal attitude that Purplecon was created to remedy.

Self branded "New Zealand's friendliest conference" it really lived up to it. The man I met and spoke to was a sales
representative of 25 years. His jab could be explained by the world that he lives in and the interests he holds, or needs to
hold due to his line of work. Where he is used to talking to C-suites and schmoozing on the companies dime (I too can get a
cheeky dig in), he saw little to no value in a conference aimed at bringing people together for the sake of enthusiasm in
technology, and meeting good people with no ulterior business motive.

From the tales I am consistently told, this attitude is also common in InfoSec / technology in general. Elitist groups
exist, and some communities have higher tolerances for harsh words and heckles.

Purplecon did a wonderful job of creating an space that opposes that, which I can attest to having a massively positive
effect on the conference. It's the definition of grassroots, kiwi-can-do-attitude, and exemplary kindness.

This was reflected in the speakers as well. While they tended to seem newer to speaking without the experience of
 delivering to larger communities (In some cases), the passion that they had about their topics made them incredibly eloquent on stage and an absolute pleasure
to listen to.

In short; it's been fantastic to have such a phenomenal experience at the second InfoSec conference I've been to, and it was
a great example of why we need more people hosting events and spreading passion.

 \- TheQueenIsDead
